---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: Git Exercises and Project Reflection"
---

* **git exercises** - To be honest, I'm new to git so I found this exercise very helpful. I've learned basic git operations such as file tracking and restoration; meanwhile, I've also learned branch management and switches in general (commands like `git log --graph --decorate --oneline --all`).

<!--more-->

* **other groups' extensions** - I think all groups' extension ideas are interesting and I've learned a lot from each group. I found [Website Time Tracker](https://github.com/ossd-s25/websiteTimeTracker.git), [Quick Notes](https://github.com/ossd-s25/Quick-Notes.git), and [Virtual Pet](https://github.com/ossd-s25/Team2-add-on-ScreenPet.git) to be most impressive from my perspective. For **Website Time Tracker**, I found it helpful as I need a tool to track the amount of time I spend on each site, similar to the screen time function on my phone. This project has a similar idea to Tomato Clock since both are for self-management and improvement. For **Quick Notes**, I found it similar to an app/extension I frequently used in high school. In terms of the project itself, I like its detailed README file with great demonstrations of each function and how it works. For **Virtual Pet**, I like it simply because it's adorable. For **future open source contribution** ideas, I'm thinking maybe combining the ideas of Website Time Tracker, Virtual Pet, and Tomato Clock, in which only the user completes certain tasks or stays focused on certain sites for a certain amount of time, the user can feed the pet or even buy more items (toys/treats).
* **take-away** - The biggest take-away from this activity is I've learned the entire process of building an open-source project, even if it's simple and with a small group of 3. This is my first open-source project and I found the process interesting, and I believe it builds a solid foundation for future larger open-source contributions. :)
