---
layout: post
title: "Week 2: Code of Conduct Activity"
---


From my perspective, having a code of conduct document for a project has many **benefits**. For instance, it creates a clear guideline for people, as it usually lists out the standards for acceptable behaviors. It also handles any possible conflict or violation based on explicit management instructions, since communication challenges are very common in open projects. As the presentation about how to drive consensus and transparency within open source communities, having such a document maintains the community to be inclusive and collaborative in the long term. 

<!--more-->

As the code of conduct for the **Go project** indicates, its success demonstrates that having a well-written CoC is essential. Additionally, compared to the CoC of the **Contributor Covenant**, the Go project adds a Gopher Values section that highlights patience, thoughtfulness, and interpersonal interpretation. The Go project emphasizes the conflict resolution section at the end of the document to again underscore the importance of communication and providing contact information if someone is violating the CoC, which makes abstract guidelines more actionable and easy to follow. 

**Eclipse’s CoC**: [Community Code of Conduct | The Eclipse Foundation](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php)
This document has a different structure and content than the Go project because it has a more formal and detailed framework that explicitly addresses retaliation. It’s more focused on organizational structure, as it’s a large foundation, whereas Go focuses more on community value. When comparing the CoC for the Sugar Labs project with the one for the Go project, I’ve noticed that Sugar Labs indicates that their CoC is based on Ubuntu and focuses on cross-cultural communication, as it also provides a Spanish version. 

I pick **Blender** [Code of Conduct - Blender Developer Documentation](https://developer.blender.org/docs/handbook/communication/code_of_conduct/) for my open-source project choice. Compared to the two templates mentioned above, I found Blender’s CoC focuses more on day-to-day interactions, and it’s much more concise than the Go project’s or Sugar Labs project’s.
