---
layout: post
title: "Week 7"
---

- Reflecting on my group work, how did my group decide on the project? We first reviewed all project ideas from two helpful lists provided by a student peer and tutor (MunGell/awesome-for-beginners and past GSoC list of organizations). Then, we filtered them based on our familiar languages (for me, Python, Java, and JavaScript). After that, we picked around 5 projects and discussed the pros and cons and potential applicability and finally decided to delve into Oppia, which is the project the professor also mentioned in the Humanitarian/Social Good Projects slides.

<!--read more-->

- Has our group hit any obstacles yet? If so, how are we planning to resolve them? Well, to make a solid decision, all group members need to test whether the installation and setting environment work on their laptops. This is the part where I encountered some difficulties. There are 3 ways to do this (WSL2, VirtualBox, and Docker). Initially, we decided to try Docker because some of us already had it from the operating systems course we took. I didn’t, so I tried downloading Docker, but I have trouble downloading WSL terminal and Linux distribution subsystems from the Microsoft Store (I’ve tried all of them). and the only solution is to reset my computer, not restart. I thought it would be much more complicated, so I chose to try the second option, which is using VirtualBox instead, and it works!
- Our group has 3 members in total, and we created a Discord server for both synchronous and asynchronous communication (sometimes Zoom for synchronous discussion). We split the main channel into announcements, general chat, project ideas, documentation, scheduling, environment issues, and GitHub, with a general voice channel. I think this way communication will be effective and efficient. We’ve done 2 meetings: 3/8 dedicated to setting up the installation environment/repository on all of our devices to make sure everyone is contribution-ready. 3/9 is dedicated to reviewing all the proper contribution documents and any templates we have to follow and making sure we are all on the same page on how to contribute properly.
